
Standard data types in C++ include the following:
• int: To store whole numbers
• float: To store floating point values
• double: To store double precision floating point values
• char: To store a single character
• bool: For boolean values of true or false

== It is important to note that the C++ community is moving away from native C++ strings 
   that is, those implemented using an array of (or pointer to) characters.

The iostream library
  cin can be used in conjunction with the extraction operator >> for buffered input
  cout can be used in conjunction with the insertion operator << for buffered output
  cerr (unbuffered) and clog (buffered) can also be used in conjunction with the insertion operator, but for errors

Basic iostream manipulators (defined in the <iomanip> header file.): 
• endl: Places a newline character ('\n') in the buffer associated with cout then flushes the buffer
• flush: Clears the contents of the output stream
• setprecision(int): Defines the precision (number of digits) used to output floating point numbers
• setw(int): Sets the width for input and output
• ws: Removes whitespace characters from the buffer

== A related historical note, #define (a preprocessor directive and macro replacement) was once used to 
   create more mnemonic types, but typedef (and using) are certainly preferred. It’s worthy to note when 
   viewing older code. 
   A using statement can be used as an alternative to a simple typedef to create an alias for a type,
   known as an alias-declaration. The using statement can also be used to simplify more complex types
   (such as providing an alias for complex declarations when using the Standard Template Library or
   declaring function pointers). The current trend is to favor a using alias-declaration to a typedef.

A pointer variable may point to the existing memory of a non-pointer variable, or it may point to memory that 
  is dynamically allocated on the heap. The latter case is the most usual situation. Unless a pointer variable 
  is properly initialized or assigned a value, the content of the pointer variable is meaningless and does 
  not represent a usable address. A large mistake can be assuming that a pointer variable has been properly 
  initialized when it may not have been. 

Using const qualification with function parameters cannot just allow the speed of passing an argument by 
  reference, but the safety of passing an argument by value. It is a useful feature in C++.

References are implemented as constant pointers, hence they must be initialized. Once initialized, references 
  may not refer to a different object (though the value of the object being referenced can be changed).

Even though a reference is implemented as a constant pointer, the usage of the reference variable is as if 
  the underlying constant pointer has been dereferenced. For this reason, you cannot initialize a reference 
  with a nullptr – not only can a nullptr not be dereferenced but since references can only be initialized 
  and not reset, the opportunity would be lost to establish the reference variable to refer to a meaningful 
  object. This also holds true for references to pointers.

Understanding when we must use pointers instead of references?
  Based on the underlying implementation of references (as const pointers), most of the restrictions for 
  reference usage make sense. For example, references to references are generally not allowed; each level of 
  indirection would need to be initialized upfront and that often takes multiple steps, such as when using 
  pointers. However, we will see r-value references (&&) in Chapter 15, Testing Classes and Components, where 
  we will examine various move operations. Arrays of references are also not permitted (each element would 
  need to be initialized immediately); nonetheless, arrays of pointers are always an option. Also, pointers 
  to references are not permitted; however, references to pointers are permitted (as are pointers to pointers).

In some OO languages, the term method is used more loosely to imply either the operation or its method, 
  based on the context of usage. In C++, the terms data member and member function are most often used.

C++ structures may also be used to encapsulate data and their related behaviors. A C++ struct
  can do anything a C++ class can do; in fact, class is implemented in terms of struct in C++.
  Though structures and classes may behave identically (other than default visibility), classes are more
  often used to model objects, relationships between object types, and implement object-oriented systems.

It is interesting to note that data members, when grouped into an access region collectively under the same 
  access label, are guaranteed to be laid out in memory in the order specified. However, if multiple access 
  regions exist containing data members within a given class, the compiler is free to reorder those 
  respective groupings for efficient memory layout.





